# Azure Blob service

Azure Blob Storage is Microsoft's object storage solution for the cloud. Blob Storage is optimized for storing massive amounts of unstructured data. Unstructured data is data that doesn't adhere to a particular data model or definition, such as text or binary data.

About Blob Storage

Blob Storage is designed for:

Serving images or documents directly to a browser.

Storing files for distributed access.

Streaming video and audio.

Writing to log files.

Storing data for backup and restore, disaster recovery, and archiving.

Storing data for analysis by an on-premises or Azure-hosted service.

Users or client applications can access objects in Blob Storage via HTTP/HTTPS, from anywhere in the world. Objects in Blob Storage are accessible via the Azure Storage REST API, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, or an Azure Storage client library. Client libraries are available for different languages, including:

.NET

Java

Node.js

Python

Go

Clients can also securely connect to Blob Storage by using SSH File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) and mount Blob Storage containers by using the Network File System (NFS) 3.0 protocol

# Authorize access to data in Azure Storage

Each time you access data in your storage account, your client application makes a request over HTTP/HTTPS to Azure Storage. By default, every resource in Azure Storage is secured, and every request to a secure resource must be authorized. Authorization ensures that the client application has the appropriate permissions to access a particular resource in your storage account

Shared Key authorization for blobs, files, queues, and tables

Shared access signatures for blobs, files, queues, and tables

Microsoft Entra integration for authorizing requests to blob, queue, and table resources

Microsoft Entra Domain Services authentication for Azure Files

On-premises Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS, or on-premises AD DS) authentication for Azure Files

Anonymous read access for blob data is supported, but not recommended

Storage Local Users can be used to access blobs with SFTP or files with SMB

# Redunancy

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-redundancy

# Access tiers for blob data

Data stored in the cloud grows at an exponential pace. To manage costs for your expanding storage needs, it can be helpful to organize your data based on how frequently it will be accessed and how long it will be retained. Azure storage offers different access tiers so that you can store your blob data in the most cost-effective manner based on how it's being used. Azure Storage access tiers include:

Hot tier - An online tier optimized for storing data that is accessed or modified frequently. The hot tier has the highest storage costs, but the lowest access costs.

Cool tier - An online tier optimized for storing data that is infrequently accessed or modified. Data in the cool tier should be stored for a minimum of 30 days. The cool tier has lower storage costs and higher access costs compared to the hot tier.

Cold tier - An online tier optimized for storing data that is rarely accessed or modified, but still requires fast retrieval. Data in the cold tier should be stored for a minimum of 90 days. The cold tier has lower storage costs and higher access costs compared to the cool tier.

Archive tier - An offline tier optimized for storing data that is rarely accessed, and that has flexible latency requirements, on the order of hours. Data in the archive tier should be stored for a minimum of 180 days.

# Azure Storage Accounts - Lifecycle policies

Azure Storage lifecycle management offers a rule-based policy that you can use to transition blob data to the appropriate access tiers or to expire data at the end of the data lifecycle. A lifecycle policy acts on a base blob, and optionally on the blob's versions or snapshots. For more information about lifecycle management policies, see Optimize costs by automatically managing the data lifecycle.

A lifecycle management policy is composed of one or more rules that define a set of actions to take based on a condition being met. For a base blob, you can choose to check one of the following conditions:

The number of days since the blob was created.

The number of days since the blob was last modified.

The number of days since the blob was last accessed. To use this condition in an action, you should first optionally enable last access time tracking.

When the selected condition is true, then the management policy performs the specified action. For example, if you have defined an action to move a blob from the hot tier to the cool tier if it has not been modified for 30 days, then the lifecycle management policy will move the blob 30 days after the last write operation to that blob.

For a blob snapshot or version, the condition that is checked is the number of days since the snapshot or version was created

Azure storage capacity limits are set at the account level, rather than according to access tier. You can choose to maximize your capacity usage in one tier, or to distribute capacity across two or more tiers
